[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
charlie state and
naga manchetti our headlines today plans
for a one percent pay rise for nhs staff
are dismissed by unions as a kick
in the teeth work with us to beat the
racists a senior police officer makes a
plea to the premier and football leagues
quarantine free holidays in cyprus from
may for british holidaymakers
if they've been vaccinated
help for some but not for all there was
extra support for pubs and restaurants
in the budget this week but hairdressers
and gyms say they still lose out
good morning liverpool make history for
all the wrong reasons they lose
five home games in a row for the first
time ever chelsea the latest side to win
at anfield and it is a chilly start to
the day out there but
high pressure keeps things largely dry
if somewhat cloudy over the next couple
of days i'll be here all morning with
more details good morning it's friday
the 5th of march our top story a
proposed 1 percent
pay rise for nhs staff has been
described by health unions and
the labour party as an insult sekir
stamos says
covet heroes deserve a bigger pay rise
but the government says the economy is
currently under pressure and any rise
above
one percent would require cuts to
services
our reporter charlotte wright has more
it has been a relentless year for those
working in the nhs
battling a health emergency like no
other
so tough that for 10 weeks at the start
of the pandemic
the public took to their doorsteps to
show their appreciation for those on the
front line
now the government has recommended a pay
rise of 1
for nhs staff in england next year which
some have described
as a kick in the teeth it's a really
difficult
difficult time i know nurses that have
been suffering with ptsd
and i know people that have moved out of
their homes
and not seen families to protect the
families from colgate
nurses and for some nurses i honestly
believe this is going to be the final
straw
the figure's been submitted by the
department of health to an independent
pay review body
it says anything higher would require
reprioritization of funds
last night the business secretary
highlighted the difficulties currently
facing all parts of the economy
no one is doubting that the nhs has been
absolutely first class
uh in this whole pandemic what i am uh
suggesting is that the whole economy
has been under huge pressure when i look
to people in the hospitality sector in
aviation in retail
many of them are very very worried that
they won't even be in a job
trade unions have contrasted the
chancellor's response with scotland and
wales
where health workers received bonuses
last year
but the government says more than a
million nhs staff continue to benefit
from deals which have delivered a pay
rise of more than 12
for newly qualified nurses and will
increase junior doctors pay scales by
8.2 percent
it says while pay rises in other public
sector jobs are paused
in the nhs they are not but some believe
the proposal would actually leave them
worse off
we don't come into the nhs we didn't
come into this job i'm not a nurse for
the money
but i'm working harder than ever than i
ever have before so just
something that was in line with
inflation i'd be happy with
trade unions have also made submissions
to the pay review body
which will make a recommendation in may
the government will then decide whether
or not to accept it
charlotte wright bbc news and we're
going to talk to the health minister
nadine doris you'll be joining us at 7
30.
the lead voice on football for the
national police chief's council
says the premier league and the football
league need to work
better with the police to stamp out
racist abuse the bbc has used the
freedom of information act to obtain a
copy of a letter which deputy chief
constable mark roberts sent to league
bosses outlining measures they could
take
our home affairs correspondent june
kelly has more
[Applause]
dandruff swansea manchester city in the
recent fifth round of the fa
cup it's a corner to swansea after
swansea's defeat
online racist abuse was directed at
their british asian player
yan dander it did have a big effect on
me and i was upset and i was angry
dander one of so many footballers who've
been targeted by the trolls
others include the manchester united
trio marcus rashford
anthony martial and axel tuenzebe
lauren james of united's women's team
her brother rhys who plays for chelsea
and his teammate antonio rudiger remains
sawyers of west brom
southampton's alex yankovitz and the
arsenal duo
willian and eddie and ketia 11 players
from different clubs but
all in the same team as victims of abuse
deputy chief constable mark roberts is
the lead on football
for the national police chief's council
the bbc
has used the freedom of information act
to obtain a copy of a letter he's
written
to the chairman of the english football
league rick parry
he sent a similar one to the chief
executive of the premier league richard
masters
the league says mr masters was only made
aware of it
when we asked for a response the letter
calls for a joined up approach
to tackling racism both at grounds and
on social media
it was sent two months ago neither
organization responded
the bbc contacted them both this week
since then
both have replied to the letter i think
it's disappointing
mark roberts wants better cooperation
from clubs to get
access to players vital in mounting a
prosecution
we actually have some difficulty getting
through club legal departments player
welfare teams
we've had experiences where a force has
been making real attempts to try and get
to a player
they've hit this wall at a club and then
publicly the players saying where are
the places why they're not making
contact
sterling here makes it two the premier
league said it had been involved in
regular discussions with the police
and it was doing everything possible to
eradicate online abuse
and the english football league said it
was looking at ways in which football
and policing
could be better coordinated june kelly
bbc news
cyprus will be the first country to
allow british tourists who've been fully
vaccinated against coronavirus to visit
without further restrictions from the
start of may
travel abroad from the uk of course is
currently only allowed for exceptional
reasons until at least
may the 17th let's find out more in
practice about how this will work with
reporter
simon jones what you simon just explain
what cyprus is outlining well many of us
are keen on the idea of a summer holiday
abroad and cyprus is certainly keen to
see the return of british tourists
now before the pandemic a million of us
used to visit the island each year
since the pandemic visitor numbers are
down by 85
and it's had a big hit on the economy
there so the deputy minister for tourism
has said he said to the british
government
the british tourists will be welcomed
back from the 1st of may as long as they
have had
both doses of the coronavirus vaccine
and when people arrive they won't need
any sort of quarantine they won't need
any sort of testing
but this is in some ways in conflict
with the government
here because at the moment it's illegal
to have a holiday abroad
you can only travel internationally for
exceptional reasons
and under boris johnson's road map out
of lockdown in
england the earliest they envisage
holidays abroad starting again
it's the 17th of may so a couple of
weeks after cyprus
would like to see the return of british
tourists now the department of transport
told us overnight that they are
committed
to working to fight the pandemic and
also find a reasonable way to allow
people to travel abroad so this week
we have the first meeting of a new task
force it brings together
people from the government from the
aviation and maritime industry from
tourism to to try to look for a route
map specifically
to allow international travel and of
course if it
is allowed in the future then ultimately
it will also depend on how the vaccine
program goes here
and how it goes in the countries abroad
we're intending to go on holiday
sam thank you very much confidence
in coronavirus vaccines is increasing
around the world according to a new
report by
imperial college london and yuga a
survey in 15 countries has been
monitoring attitudes during the last
four months found that almost 6 in 10
people would take a vaccine
if it was offered to them now our health
correspondent neiman grimly has this
report
it isn't enough to have a steady supply
of vaccine
countries also need to have enough
people willing to take it
to achieve herd immunity in the
population
researchers at imperial college london
have been tracking vaccine sentiment in
15 countries over the last few months
and this is what they found the survey
suggests that people in the uk
are the most willing to have the vaccine
with 77
stating they would take it if offered
now
france singapore and japan have
consistently remained amongst the least
willing
in these three countries less than 50 of
those questioned would accept a
vaccination
chiefly because of apparent worries
about side effects
even in these countries though
confidence has grown since november
when the first covid vaccines were only
just emerging
in fact nine out of the 15 countries in
the survey
saw vaccine confidence rising over the
last four months
the team at imperial says it's
heartening
what we can see now is that when we look
back and compare our data from february
to our data points in november
actually for most of the countries in
our survey confidence is increasing we
see more people that are willing to get
the vaccine if it were made available to
them
and we see less people saying that they
are worried about side effects
potentially
so overall it seems like a better story
in terms of increased confidence across
our 14 countries
the task for many countries will be
overcoming the vast amount of
misinformation
online which undermines vaccination
programs worldwide
nemmy grimly bbc news
the street artist banksy has confirmed
he's responsible for an artwork that's
appeared on the wall of a jail
in reading now the painting shows a
prisoner probably
possibly resembling famous inmates oscar
wilde
escaping on a rope made of bed sheets
tied to a typewriter
campaign is currently lobbying for the
abandoned prison to be turned into an
arts hub
rather than sold for housing
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news